I want to start by giving you a definition of what procedural shading even means.
If you never heard of the word procedural or not familiar with what exactly it means.
You can think of it as being generated by a set of rules.
That means that the job of the artist creating such a procedural
piece of content lies in defining those rules and the process,
how it's generated.
Rather than explicitly creating it by hand.
Instead of baking the cake yourself,
you create the recipe and give it to your computer to handle the baking for you.
This shifts the required way of thinking and to a more technical direction,
but it has several advantages compared
to the traditional approach that nondestructive workflow
makes it possible to make changes at any point of the process.
And introducing randomness enables you to
make iterations with random variations easily.
Oftentimes it is a valid option to combine a
procedural workflow with elements that are not procedurally created.
That allows the artist to have
precise control over some important artistic decisions
while leaving less important aspects that can
be automated to the procedural algorithm.
While technically you can procedural eyes any part of an artistic workflow,
it is always a good idea to weigh the anticipated
benefits against the additional effort that it takes to set up
a good procedural workflow allows for some level of manual art direction.
As I said before,
This course will handle the topic of procedural shading in particular.
In other words how a surface looks and reacts to light
while I will cover the basics of shading in general a
decent knowledge of how shading works will definitely help you.
The main focus of this course will be transitioning to a procedural
workflow for shading to give you a more hands on approach.
Let's take a look at the example scene
in the example scene you can see that on the left,
we have the view port which you can switch into E
V rendering by holding down said and selecting the material preview.
The first time you go into this view mode,
every has to compile all the shader is in the scene and that can take quite a while.
I do have to give a disclaimer here.
These fully procedural shader czar, quite heavy to compute,
especially because they are quite complex at times.
This means that the performance relies quite heavily on
your graphics card and depending on your machine,
it might not be able to compile all the shakers.
That is why I made a simplified version of the scene.
That has a bunch of tweaks making the
shakers less complex and increases the performance.
The changes take away from the quality a bit, but they are not too drastic.
This simplified scene should be able to run on older graphics
cards as well even though it might not be super smooth.
Once the traders are compiled though you can just take a look around the scene.
If you play back the animation,
you can see that a few of the shakers are animated as well.
You can also just click around on different objects and see the no trees
popping up that create their shade ear's no image textures are used here.
Every shader is made up only of notes.
Some of these no trees are quite extensive but they are built step by step and we
will take a look at all those individual steps
throughout this course to understand how it all works
for Now,
you can just browse through the shakers and play around with
all those parameters and take a look at what happens.
You can see that the changes that you are
making are updating in real time because of Eve
and the procedural set up means that every parameter
in the whole no tree influences the resulting shader,
nothing is fixed.
Another benefit that I mentioned is automatically creating random variations.
For example, if I just duplicate these pillows here,
each one has a different variation of the pattern.
I hope this example scene illustrates a bit better what it means to work
with Procedural shakers and blender and it gets you excited for this course.
Don't let these no trees intimidate you were going to go over it step by step.
They usually don't have to be understood as a whole
but can be broken down in simple chunks